EC-84: Revise Configuration, Customers, eContent, Login and Logging (#5)
ezsystems/commerce-documentation: docs/guide/econtent/econtent_features/econtent_database_model.md

# eContent database model

eContent uses four main database tables and two optional ones:

|Table|Staging|Purpose|
|--- |--- |--- |

> |`sve_class`||Stores types of catalog elements (e.g. product, product_group). Each type has an identifier which has a relation with `sve_class_attributes`|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|`sve_class`||Stores types of catalog elements (e.g. product, product_group). Each type has an identifier which has a relation with `sve_class_attributes`.|
```

> |`sve_class_attributes`||Stores all possible catalog element attributes (name, type) for different catalog elements (`class_id`)|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|`sve_class_attributes`||Stores all possible catalog element attributes (name, type) for different catalog elements (`class_id`).|
```

> |`sve_object`|yes|Stores all catalog elements and general information about them (URL, parent, depth, etc.)|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|`sve_object`|yes|Stores all catalog elements and general information about them (URL, parent, depth, etc.).|
```

|`sve_object_attributes`|yes|Stores all attributes for the given catalog element depending on language.|
|`ses_externaldata`||(optional) Stores additional information for `sve_object_attributes` of `ses_externaldata`. Collects more information for that kind of catalog element.|

> |`sve_object_catalog`|yes|(optional) Used for segmentation|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|`sve_object_catalog`|yes|(optional) Used for segmentation.|
```

> For staging purposes the database tables use the `_tmp` prefix (e.g. `sve_object_tmp`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For staging purposes, the database tables use the `_tmp` prefix (e.g. `sve_object_tmp`).
```

The staging tables can be used to import a complete product catalog without affecting the production catalogue.

> For details, see [eContent staging system](staging_system.md). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information, see [eContent staging system](staging_system.md). 
```

!!! note

    eZ Commerce uses Doctrine entities to create these tables.

>     It is not possible to create indexes for the table `sve_object_attributes` for the `data_text` attribute via Doctrine. You have to create the indexes manually every time you run

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    It is impossible to create indexes for the table `sve_object_attributes` for the `data_text` attribute with the Doctrine. You must create the indexes manually every time you run
```

    `php bin/console doctrine:schema:update --force`

## Metadata for products and product groups

The table `sve_object` contains one entry for each product group, product, etc.

> It is possible to arrange data in a tree structure using the field `parent_id`, which is the Location ID of the parent.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can arrange data in a tree structure by using the field `parent_id`, which is the Location ID of the parent.
```

> Location IDs begin from a value of 2 due to compatibility with the eZ Platform data structure.

Reviewer: Do you mean the following here?
```suggestion
Location IDs begin with a digit 2 due to compatibility with the eZ Platform data structure.
```

This table contains several other pieces of information in addition to Content Type ID and Location ID, for example:

- time of last change
- Location ID of the parent

> - flag indicating whether the item is blocked

Reviewer: Also, I would consider adding articles in all the bullets.
```suggestion
- flag that indicates whether the item is blocked
```

- priority
- URL alias - readable URL of this document (for example `/shop/toys/kids/wooden_toy`)
- depth

> - main Location ID - if the item is has multiple Locations, this defines the first appearance in this tree, where all data referenced to this object is stored

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- main Location ID - if the item has multiple Locations, this parameter defines the first appearance in this tree, where all data referenced to this object is stored
```

+---------+--------------------------------------------------------------------+-------------+-------+
```

## Attributes for products and product groups

You can create multiple data fields for each entry in `sve_object_attributes`.

> Each of them can be set in its own language. The language codes are specified in ISO-639 (for example 'ger-DE' or 'eng-US'). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each of them can be set in its own language. The language codes follow the ISO-639 standard (for example, 'ger-DE' or 'eng-US'). 
```

### Table `sve_object_attributes`

|Field|Type|Null|Key|Default|Extra|
|--- |--- |--- |--- |--- |--- |
|`node_id`|int(10) unsigned||PRI|0||
|`attribute_id`|int(10) unsigned||PRI|0||
|`data_float`|float|YES||NULL||
|`data_int`|int(11)|YES||NULL||
|`data_text`|text|YES||NULL||
|`language`|varchar(6)||PRI|ger-DE||

### Table `sve_class`

This table describes all available Content Types. The class fields are defined in `sve_class_attributes`.

|Field|Type|Null|Key|Default|Extra|
|--- |--- |--- |--- |--- |--- |
|`class_id`|int(10) unsigned||PRI|0||
|`class_name`|varchar(255)|YES||NULL||
|`name_identifier`|int(10) unsigned|||0||

### Table `sve_class_attributes`

The table describes the Content Type Fields.

|Field|Type|Null|Key|Default|Extra|
|--- |--- |--- |--- |--- |--- |
|`attribute_id`|int(10) unsigned||PRI|0||
|`class_id`|int(10) unsigned|||0||
|`attribute_name`|varchar(255)|YES||NULL||
|`ezdatatype`|varchar(255)|||||
|`sort_field`|varchar(255)|||data_text||

The following datatypes are supported:

#### ezstring

The data is stored in the `data_text` field as a flat string.

#### ezinteger

The data is stored in the `data_int` field.

#### ezprice

> The price information is stored in the `data_float` field. The `data_text` field contains information about the VAT value in percent and a flag indicating if the price is incluing VAT or not.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The price information is stored in the `data_float` field. The `data_text` field contains information about the VAT value in percent and a flag that indicates whether the price includes VAT or not.
```

+---------+--------------+------------+----------+-----------+----------+
```

> If this example, the price is 0.952 EUR (currency is defined per shop), including 19% VAT.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this example, the price is 0.952 EUR (currency is defined per shop), including 19% VAT.
```

+---------+--------------+------------+----------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+----------+
```

> - columns: definition of the columns using a ID and a Label

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- columns: definition of the columns with an ID and a Label
```

> - rows: containing the data by rows and columns. For example, if a table contains 2 rows a 2 columns 4 `<c>` tags have to be generated.

Reviewer: Am I reading it right?
```suggestion
- rows: containing the data by rows and columns. For example, if a table contains two rows and two columns, four `<c>` tags must be generated.
```

4   205         NULL            NULL            19.95           ger-DE
```

### Table `ses_externaldata`

> This table describes all external data from (SAP, PIM, TYP, etc.). The content is encoded in JSON.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This table describes all external data from SAP, PIM, TYP, etc. The content is encoded in JSON.
```
